1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" - string
42 - integer
09/02/1945 - date
98.7 - float
$15.99 - currency

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database would be used for data that is going to change frequently, data that is going to be accessed by multiple devices or through multiple instances, and that will persists beyond the end of the application process. 

A text file would be used for data that most likely will not change frequently. Something like a set of rules or guidelines that will not be updated often. Static data is good for a text file.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

One difference between SQL and other programming languages is that its statements specify what data to access or what data operations to execute rather than how it will be done.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

All data needs to be stored somewhere so what databases do is organize data to where it can be accessed easily. It does this by organizing it into tables, much like a spreadsheet, and labelling pieces of data into categories. Each category may hold sub-categories of data. When you want to access that data, you go into the database and look at the specific table of data and then start using commands to find exactly what you want.


5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A table in SQL is where the data in a database is stored and is identified by a unique name.
A row in SQL represents individual pieces of data that are related. Similar to Javascript objects.
A column describes each piece of data within the table. Such as a key that will access a value with Javascript objects.
A value is the intersection of a row and a column that will determine what type of data is being held in that particular "cell."


6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

Strings, Floats, or Integers

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
    a. I'm looking for the date and amount of the payments table.
    b. I'm looking for the amount of the payments table whose amount is greater than 500.
    c. I'm looking for all data of the payments table whose payee is 'Mega Foods'.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

- The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE userid = 1;

- The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm.uw.edu';

- All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;